---
title: Enumerate all AD groups  a user belongs to.
tags:
  - Active Directory
  - KB328889
url: 33.html
id: 33
categories:
  - IT
date: 2010-11-05 22:03:37
---

Some users, "hard core" users, are having troubles when attempting to login. A small research indicates that they have to give up some group memberships. Due to Windows system limitation, in Active Directory, all users are limited to be a member of no more than 1015 groups within the domain, or they will fail to log on. [Microsoft KB 328889 article](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/328889) describes this limitation, but there is no solution available. As a workaround we have to keep eyes on how many groups a user belong to, if a user is found in more than 1000 groups (how hard he/she works!), then it has to be removed from several groups. The script (by me) is to enumerate all users in the designated domain or OU, then calculate how many groups memberships for each of them, both direct and nested (transitive), and report users  of 900+ count. Please note that "PrimaryGroupID" is ignored by this script, which is  "domain users" in most scenarios. The result can be easily redirected to a txt file. `On Error Resume Next ' Determine the DNS domain from the RootDSE object. objRecordSet.MoveNext Loop Sub EnumGroups(ByVal objADObject) ' Recursive subroutine to enumerate user group memberships. ' Includes nested group memberships. Dim colstrGroups, objGroup, j objGroupList.CompareMode = vbTextCompare colstrGroups = objADObject.memberOf If (IsEmpty(colstrGroups) = True) Then Exit Sub End If If (TypeName(colstrGroups) = "String") Then ' Escape any forward slash characters, "/", with the backslash ' escape character. All other characters that should be escaped are. colstrGroups = Replace(colstrGroups, "/", "\/") Set objGroup = GetObject("LDAP://" & colstrGroups) If (objGroupList.Exists(objGroup.sAMAccountName) = False) Then objGroupList.Add objGroup.sAMAccountName, True 'Wscript.Echo objGroup.distinguishedName memberofCount = memberofCount + 1 Call EnumGroups(objGroup) End If Set objGroup = Nothing Exit Sub End If For j = 0 To UBound(colstrGroups) ' Escape any forward slash characters, "/", with the backslash ' escape character. All other characters that should be escaped are. colstrGroups(j) = Replace(colstrGroups(j), "/", "\/") Set objGroup = GetObject("LDAP://" & colstrGroups(j)) If (objGroupList.Exists(objGroup.sAMAccountName) = False) Then objGroupList.Add objGroup.sAMAccountName, True 'Wscript.Echo objGroup.distinguishedName memberofCount = memberofCount + 1 Call EnumGroups(objGroup) End If Next Set objGroup = Nothing End Sub objRecordSet.Close Set objRecordSet = Nothing Set objCommand = Nothing objConnection.Close Set objConnection = Nothing` 

* * *